= User Manual =

== Overview ==
This readme file contains the guidelines for usage of S2N.

S2N is a command tool which can transform SPIN models to NuSMV models. You can 
input your Promela program to S2N, and it will produce the equivalence program in 
NuSMV language. The source of S2N is open in this project. 

Any questions, please email to yongjiang043@gmail.com .
-----------
== 1. Installing S2N ==
S2N can run on Linux and Windows. You can download the binary executables and the sources from http://code.google.com/p/s2n/downloads/list

To recompile the source, you should have gcc and yacc (or bison) on your computer. If you are using Windows, these can be obtained from cygwin or MinGW. A copy of MinGW is available in the downloads of this project.

When the ready is done, uncompress the file you downloaded, and cd to that directory. Run the makefile by typing the command
{{{
make
}}}
in cmd or terminal if you are in Linux. This will produce the executable s2n.exe or s2n in Linux. you can clean the .o files by 
{{{
make clean
}}}
Add the path of s2n to your computer enviroment path variable if Windows, or copy the exectables to your default seach path (such as your home bin directory, or /usr/local/bin etc) in Linux. 

Type 's2n' in your cmd or terminal, it will show as follows:
{{{
s2n: s2n version 1.0 -- 17 Dec 2010
}}}
your installation of S2N successes.
-----------
== 2. Using S2N ==
{{{
 s2n [options]* source [-o target]
}}}

options :

-h (or -H)  show usage help tips

-m (or -M)  produce the marked Promela file.

-d (or -D)  show details of the transformation.

If you have not assigned the target, the output SMV program will be placed in the current directory named "mysmv.smv".The source filename should be postfixed with ".pml". Assuming your source file is "source.pml", the marked Promela file will be "source_mark.pml" and in the same directory as your source. When option -m (-M) is not used, it will not produce the marked file.

With the ouput SMV program, you can do model checking with NuSMV.
-----------
== 3. Related Software ==
As S2N is a bridge of SPIN and NuSMV, it's better that you are familiar with these two model checkers. Only work with them 
can S2N really complete its job.

*SPIN*

It is designed to model synchronization and coordination of processes in parallel and distributed systems. You can get SPIN and know more from http://spinroot.com/.

*NuSMV*

NuSMV is a symbol model checker, which also provides bounded model checking. You can get NuSMV and know more from [http://nusmv.fbk.eu].

-----------
<A href="http://code.google.com/p/s2n/">HomePage of S2N project</A>